Ajay Balami
IoT Enthusiast  | 	Electronics & Embedded Systems Developer	ajaybalami980@gmail.com
LinkedIn: Link
GitHub: Link
Mobile: +977 9803391169
Passionate and detail-oriented electronics and IoT developer with hands-on experience in designing smart systems using Arduino, wireless communication, and sensor integration. Skilled in developing innovative solutions for real-world applications, including safety and automation. Eager to apply my knowledge in IoT, low-power electronics, and cloud-based monitoring to revolutionize smart technologies.
Education
Virinchi College	Kumaripati, Lalitpur
BICT (Software Engineering)  CGPA-3.31
May 2021-Jan 2025
Skills Summary
Languages:	C++, Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript
Tools:	Fritzing, Circuit Wizards, Tinker CAD, Arduino, Pyucraft, Thonny, Blynk, MIT App Inventor, Git and GitHub
Soft Skills:	Team work, Collaboration, Communication, Leadership, Problem Solving, Attention to detail, Time management, knowledge Sharing
Projects
Smart Green House: Link
Revolutionizing the farming with the use of various sensors like DHT sensor, MQ sensor, soil moisture sensor , automating the drop irrigation system, cloud data monitoring  along integration of mobile app . Overall making the farming smart with the aid of technology.
Smart Helmet: Link
Project Made with various IOT technology with features: helmet detection, alcohol detection, reckless driving monitoring, SOS emergency service with mobile app integration. Made using Arduino IDE and MIT App inventor	Self Balancing Robot: Link
A two wheeler robot capable of balancing itself on two wheels without any external support along with external remote control that is capable for driving the robot in any direction as desired by user
Gemini with ESP8266: Link
Use of Gemini API with esp8266 which allows the user to use Gemini AI through serial monitor. Made using C++	Solar Tracking (Sun Sync) Project: Link
Project made to increase the efficiency of solar panels by rotating the panel in same direction as where the sun is
Work Experience
IOT and Robotics Internship – 5 months ( 01 Aug 2024  -  31 Dec 2024 ) - Virinchi
Led IOT and Robotics Club     2023 - 2024 Dec - Virinchi
Responsibilities:
o	Developed various IOT and Robotics projects like piano, soccer, racing bots, smart home, target shooting project, snake , LED chaser able to produce different led light pattern based upon sound intensity, and gesture mouse: duplicating the functionality of mouse and can control the cursor on monitor based upon the movement of hand where the device is worn
o	Conduct training sessions, workshop for juniors, and students of other colleges on IOT and robotics concepts, tools, and technologies, fostering a culture of continuous learning and innovation.
o	Handle the procurement and management of resources along with communication with all
Game Developer Intern- 3 Months(8  Nov 2024 - 7 Feb 2025)- Danson Solution 
Responsibilities:
o	Designed and developed game mechanics using Gdevelop.
o	Collaborated with designers and artists to create engaging gameplay experiences.
o	Optimized game performance and resolved bugs to ensure a smooth user experience.
o	Integrated animations, sound effects, and UI elements into game projects.
Certifications
o	IOT Edge Computing and IOT Analytics by Infosys SpringBoard (March 2024)
o	Python with Django by Sipalaya IT Training and Internship (July 2024)
